Add script score query (#4970)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _query-dsl/specialized/script-score.md

---
layout: default
title: Script score
parent: Specialized queries
grand_parent: Query DSL
nav_order: 60
---

# Script score query

> A `script_score` query lets you customize the score calculation by using a script. For an expensive scoring function, you can use a `script_score` query to calculate the score only for the returned documents that have been filtered.

Author: I think it's implicitly understood.

## Example

> For example, the following request creates an index with one document:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the following request creates an index containing one document:
```

```json
GET testindex1/_search
{
  "query": {
    "script_score": {
      "query": {
        "match": { 
            "name": "John" 
        }
      },
      "script": {
        "source": "_score * doc['multiplier'].value"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

In the response, the score for document 1 is half of the original score:

```json
{
  "took": 8,
  "timed_out": false,
  "_shards": {
    "total": 1,
    "successful": 1,
    "skipped": 0,
    "failed": 0
  },
  "hits": {
    "total": {
      "value": 1,
      "relation": "eq"
    },
    "max_score": 0.14384104,
    "hits": [
      {
        "_index": "testindex1",
        "_id": "1",
        "_score": 0.14384104,
        "_source": {
          "name": "John Doe",
          "multiplier": 0.5
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Parameters

The `script_score` query supports the following top-level parameters.

Parameter | Data type | Description
:--- | :--- | :---

> `query` | Object | The query to use for search. Required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`query` | Object | The query used for search. Required.
```

> `script` | Object | The script to use to calculate the score of the documents that the `query` returns. Required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`script` | Object | The script used to calculate the score of the documents returned by the `query`. Required.
```

`min_score` | Float | Excludes documents with a score lower than `min_score` from the results. Optional.

> `boost` | Float | Boosts the documents' scores by the given multiplier. Values less than 1.0 decrease relevance, and values greater than 1.0 increase relevance. Default is 1.0. 

Author: Will keep "greater" and "less" per offline discussion.

The relevance scores calculated by the `script_score` query cannot be negative. 
{: .important}

## Customizing score calculation with built-in functions

> To customize score calculation, you can use one of the built-in Painless functions. For every function, OpenSearch provides one or more Painless methods you can access in the script score context. You can call the Painless methods listed in the following sections directly, without using a class name or instance name qualifier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To customize score calculation, you can use one of the built-in Painless functions. For every function, OpenSearch provides one or more Painless methods you can access in the script score context. You can call the Painless methods listed in the following sections directly without using a class name or instance name qualifier.
```

### Saturation

> The saturation function calculates saturation as `score = value /(value + pivot)`, where `value` is the field value and `pivot` is chosen so that the score is greater than 0.5 if `value` is greater than `pivot` and less than 0.5 if `value` is less than `pivot`. The score is in the (0, 1) range. To apply a saturation function, call the following Painless method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The saturation function calculates saturation as `score = value /(value + pivot)`, where `value` is the field value and `pivot` is chosen so that the score is higher than 0.5 if `value` is higher than `pivot` and lower than 0.5 if `value` is lower than `pivot`. The score is in the (0, 1) range. To apply a saturation function, call the following Painless method:
```

- `double saturation(double <field-value>, double <pivot>)`
    
#### Example

> The following example searches for the text `neural search` in the `articles` index. It combines the original document relevance score with the `article_rank` value, which is transformed with a saturation function first:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example query searches for the text `neural search` in the `articles` index. It combines the original document relevance score with the `article_rank` value, which is first transformed with a saturation function:
```

```json
GET articles/_search
{
  "query": {
    "script_score": {
      "query": {
        "match": { "article_name": "neural search" }
      },
      "script" : {
        "source" : "_score + saturation(doc['article_rank'].value, 11)"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Sigmoid

> Similarly to the saturation function, the sigmoid function calculates the score as `score = value^exp/ (value^exp + pivot^exp)`, where `value` is the field value, `exp` is an exponent scaling factor, and `pivot` is chosen so that the score is greater than 0.5 if `value` is greater than `pivot` and less than 0.5 if `value` is less than `pivot`. To apply a sigmoid function, call the following Painless method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly to the saturation function, the sigmoid function calculates the score as `score = value^exp/ (value^exp + pivot^exp)`, where `value` is the field value, `exp` is an exponent scaling factor, and `pivot` is chosen so that the score is higher than 0.5 if `value` is higher than `pivot` and lower than 0.5 if `value` is lower than `pivot`. To apply a sigmoid function, call the following Painless method:
```

- `double sigmoid(double <field-value>, double <pivot>, double <exp>)`

#### Example

> The following example searches for the text `neural search` in the `articles` index. It combines the original document relevance score with the `article_rank` value, which is transformed with a sigmoid function first:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example query searches for the text `neural search` in the `articles` index. It combines the original document relevance score with the `article_rank` value, which is first transformed with a sigmoid function:
```

```json
GET articles/_search
{
  "query": {
    "script_score": {
      "query": {
        "match": { "article_name": "neural search" }
      },
      "script" : {
        "source" : "_score + sigmoid(doc['article_rank'].value, 11, 2)"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Random score

The random score function generates uniformly distributed random scores in the [0, 1) range. To learn how the function works, see [The random score function]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/compound/function-score#the-random-score-function). To apply a random score function, call one of the following Painless methods:

- `double randomScore(int <seed>)`: Uses the internal Lucene document IDs as seed values.
- `double randomScore(int <seed>, String <field-name>)`

#### Example

> The following query uses the `random_score` function with a `seed` and `field`:

Reviewer: Can "a" also precede `field`?

```json
GET articles/_search
{
  "query": {
    "script_score": {
      "query": {
        "match": { "article_name": "neural search" }
      },
      "script" : {
          "source" : "randomScore(20, '_seq_no')"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Decay functions

> With decay functions, you can score the results based on proximity or recency. To learn more, see [Decay functions]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/compound/function-score#decay-functions). You can calculate scores using an exponential, Gaussian, or linear decay curves. To apply a decay function, call one of the following Painless methods, depending on the type of field:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With decay functions, you can score the results based on proximity or recency. To learn more, see [Decay functions]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/compound/function-score#decay-functions). You can calculate scores using an exponential, Gaussian, or linear decay curve. To apply a decay function, call one of the following Painless methods, depending on the type of field:
```

> With decay functions, you can score the results based on proximity or recency. To learn more, see [Decay functions]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/compound/function-score#decay-functions). You can calculate scores using an exponential, Gaussian, or linear decay curve. To apply a decay function, call one of the following Painless methods, depending on the type of field:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With decay functions, you can score results based on proximity or recency. To learn more, see [Decay functions]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/compound/function-score#decay-functions). You can calculate scores using an exponential, Gaussian, or linear decay curve. To apply a decay function, call one of the following Painless methods, depending on the field type:
```

```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

#### Example: Geopoint fields

The following query uses the Gaussian decay function on a geopoint field:

```json
GET hotels/_search
{
  "query": {
    "script_score": {
      "query": {
        "match": {
          "name": "hotel"
        }
      },
      "script": {
        "source": "decayGeoGauss(params.origin, params.scale, params.offset, params.decay, doc['location'].value)",
        "params": {
          "origin": "40.71,74.00",
          "scale":  "300ft",
          "offset": "200ft",
          "decay": 0.25
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

#### Example: Date fields

The following query uses the linear decay function on a date field:

```json
GET blogs/_search
{
  "query": {
    "script_score": {
      "query": {
        "match": {
          "name": "opensearch"
        }
      },
      "script": {
        "source": "decayDateLinear(params.origin, params.scale, params.offset, params.decay, doc['date_posted'].value)",
        "params": {
          "origin":  "2022-04-24",
          "scale":  "6d",
          "offset": "1d",
          "decay": 0.25
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> If [`search.allow_expensive_queries`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/index/#expensive-queries) is set to `false`, `script_score` queries are not run.

Reviewer: "will not be run"?

---
layout: default
title: Script score
parent: Specialized queries
grand_parent: Query DSL
nav_order: 60
---

# Script score query

A `script_score` query lets you customize the score calculation by using a script. For an expensive scoring function, you can use a `script_score` query to calculate the score only for the returned documents that have been filtered.

## Example

For example, the following request creates an index with one document:

```json
PUT testindex1/_doc/1
{
  "name": "John Doe",
  "multiplier": 0.5
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> You can use a `match` query to return all documents that match `John`:

Reviewer 3: isn't this only search on name field?

```json
GET testindex1/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "name": "John"
    }
  }
}
```

> {% include copy-curl.html %}

Reviewer 3: this is shown up on doc preview, should this be a dynamic html content?

Author: This does not render in GitHub-flavored markdown but does in local build.

In the response, document 1 has the score of `0.2876821`:

```json
{
  "took": 7,
  "timed_out": false,
  "_shards": {
    "total": 1,
    "successful": 1,
    "skipped": 0,
    "failed": 0
  },
  "hits": {
    "total": {
      "value": 1,
      "relation": "eq"
    },
    "max_score": 0.2876821,
    "hits": [
      {
        "_index": "testindex1",
        "_id": "1",
        "_score": 0.2876821,
        "_source": {
          "name": "John Doe",
          "multiplier": 0.5
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

Now, let's change the document score with a script that calculates the score as the value of the `_score` field multiplied by the value of the `multiplier` field. In the following query, you can access the current relevance score of a document in the `_score` variable and the `multiplier` value as `doc['multiplier'].value`:

```json
GET testindex1/_search
{
  "query": {
    "script_score": {
      "query": {
        "match": { 
            "name": "John" 
        }
      },
      "script": {

>         "source": "_score doc['multiplier'].value"

Reviewer 3: missing `*`?

Author: Yes, thanks!

      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

In the response, the score for document 1 is half of the original score:

```json
{
  "took": 8,
  "timed_out": false,
  "_shards": {
    "total": 1,
    "successful": 1,
    "skipped": 0,
    "failed": 0
  },
  "hits": {
    "total": {
      "value": 1,
      "relation": "eq"
    },
    "max_score": 0.14384104,
    "hits": [
      {
        "_index": "testindex1",
        "_id": "1",
        "_score": 0.14384104,
        "_source": {
          "name": "John Doe",
          "multiplier": 0.5
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

Optionally, you can include a `min_score` parameter that specifies a minimum threshold score for the documents to be included in the results:

```json
GET testindex1/_search
{
  "query": {
    "script_score": {
      "query": {
        "match": { "name": "John" }
      },
      "script": {
        "source": "_score doc['multiplier'].value"
      },
      "min_score": 0.15
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The preceding query returns no results because the document score of the only document in the index is lower than the `min_score` threshold.

Reviewer 3: I like the example here, but we might be careful promoting `min_score` use case. There's an bug related https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/8155#issuecomment-1597832932

Author: Removed
